Welcome to SmartMUN!

Getting Started:
        To access the site, we first need to start up our server. Head over to the CS50 IDE and open 
        up a terminal. Change directories to the "SmartMUN" folder, install the necessary dependencies
        by running "pip3 install --user -r requirements.txt", and run Flask as per
        "flask run". Now, head over to the "CS50 IDE" button on the top left and click it, selecting
        "Web Server" from the drop-down menu. You should now be redirected to our SmartMUN's log-in 
        page and are ready to start using SmartMUN.


Committee Moderator Mode

    Registering
        You should create an account on SmartMUN as a committee (since we're still working on the cool,
        new features for delegates). To register, simply click on the text to the right of the form (and
        says "Register Here"). Great! Now go ahead and create a committee name and password. If all fields
        are filled out properly, you should have been redirected to the log-in page you saw before. Let's
        log-in and explore all that SmartMUN has to offer.
        
    Manager
        You should now be looking at a page that contains a table with all kinds of important MUN stats
        (i.e. Speeches, Resolutions, Amendments, Attended Sessions, and Majorities). Hum... it doesn't 
        look too exciting though. It seems like we have no delegations in our committees! Let's add a few.
        
        See the blue form on the bottom right? As per the instructions on that form, add "USA" by typing 
        in "USA" to the "Delegation Name" field and leaving the other fields blank. Hit the button "Update"
        and viola! You should now see the USA has been added and a few statistics should have appeared and/or
        changed. Let's go ahead and add the current members of the United Nations Security Council (in 2016)
        by repeating this process!  They are: China, UK, France, Russia, Angola, Egypt, Japan, Malaysia, 
        New Zealand, Senegals, Spain, Ukraine, Uruguay, and Venezuela. You can add multiple countries at once
        by separating them with commas and putting them in the "Delegation Name" field. Note hat you can also
        edit multiple countries' stats at once by following this same process. So, for example, you can add
        10 to the amendment count of both China and the USA by typing in "China, USA" to the "Delegation Name"
        field and then "10" in the "Change Amendments" field.
            
        Awesome, now we have a real committee! Let's say we just began our committee session and want to
        take attendance. All we have to do is click on the "0" under the "Attended Sessions" column for
        each country. Boom, attendance taken! You can already see the number of sessions each country
        has participated in. This same process (which we call "QuickUp") can be used to 
        update any of the other values on the table. Let's say the USA submitted a resolution. So, to
        increase the number of resolutions, just click the "0" on the "Resolutions / Directives" column
        and that will update to a "1".
            
        Let's say you think Angola submitted an amendment. Go ahead and use QuickUp to increase Angola's
        amendments. Oh no! Turns out that the amendment was actually China's! So, to take away an
        amendment from Angola, we can use the blue form on the bottom right (the same we used for
        adding delegations to our committee! We should now type in "Angola" in the "Delegation Name"
        field and "-1" on the "Amendments" field since we want to subtract one amendment. Click "Update"
        and are mistake has been rectified! Note that if Angola (or any other delegation) were to 
        eventually submit 10 amendments at one, we can just use this form to update the table just once
        (instead of using QuickUp ten times). We can also change any of the other values on the table by
        filling in the corresponding field on the form. Note you can update multiple fields at once
        (but only a single delegation at a time) by typing in integers to each field on the form.
        
        Wondering what the "Committee Name" and "Committee Code" values represent? These will be used
        for registering delegations so that delegates can communicate with you, the committee 
        administrator via the crisis note functionality, which we'll talk about later on.
            
    Speaker Tracker
        Now that we're done editing statistics in the committee, let's head over to the speaker tracker.
        Just click the "SmartMUN" logo to go there! If at any time you want to return to the manager
        page, simply click the gavel on the top right of the page. Anyway, back to our speaker tracker.
        You should see a list of all your delegations with a number next to each. That shows you how
        many times each delegation spoke (just like the "Speeches" column in the manager page) so that
        you can ensure all members get an equal opportunity to speak. The more interesting part of this
        page, however, is the right side - our speakers list!
    
        To add a speaker simply type their name in the "New Speaker" field and hit the "Add" button.
        Note that a speech is automatically added to that speaker once he or her begins his speech,
        (although you will only see this change if the page is refreshed), that is, when he or she
        is the "Current Speaker". Keep in mind though that the speakers list clears when you refresh
        the page, so we recommend refreshing only when the list is empty. The number of speeches on
        the manager page will also be updated (since it is the same number). Feel free to add as many
        speakers as you want to the list!

        To start a delegation's speaking time, just put in the desired time (in seconds) and press
        the "Start Timer" button. Note that the default speaking time is 45 seconds, but feel free
        to change that at will. You can end a speaker's speaking time at any time by clicking the
        "Next Speaker" button. This will make it so the next speaker in the list becomes the current
        speaker and will start his or her time. To clear the speakers list, just hit the "Clear 
        Speakers List" button. Note that the "speeches" information is only updated for a speaker
        if they have spoken. So, if Venezuela is third on the list and the speakers list is cleared,
        then Venezuela's speech amount will not have increased.
            
    Reset Password
        Let's say you think you may have seen an overly excited delegate who wants to inflate his/her
        stats see your password as you typed it in. You may want to change it and, to do that, simply
        click on "Reset Password" on the top of the page. Type in your old password as a safety measure
        and a new (different!) password. Be sure to confirm it (by retyping) and hit the "Reset" button.
        If the form submits correctly and your password is reset, you'll see a green confirmation message.
            
    Crisis Notes
        Let's head to the crisis page. Just click on "Crisis Notes" on the top of the page. You should
        see a list of delegations in your committee and a "Committee Manager" (that's you!). 
        Additionally, you should see a big white box, an input field and a "Send Message" button.
        We're working to make it so that you can send and receive messages from delegates. We weren't
        able to get this ready by the submission deadline, but hope to have it in place by the Harvard
        MUN Conference (in late January). Once you switch to delegate mode (up next!) you will be able
        to send messages to the committee manager and other delegates through the Crisis Notes page.
    

Delegate Mode
    
    Registering
        Let's check out the delegate mode of our application. Before signing out, however, go back
        to the committee manager page (remember: just click the gavel!) and take note of the 
        "Committee Name" and "Committee Code" values we mentioned before. Now hit the "Log Out"
        on the top right of the page. You should be redirected to the login page.

        Now that you're on the login page, you may tempted to go ahead and login. Keep
        in mind, however, that you still haven't registered any delegates for your commmittee,
        so there's no delegate to login in with (yet)! Click the text to the right of the form (the one
        that says "Register Here" (just like you did when registering a committee).

        Be sure to click the checkbox about registering as a delegate. Now do you see why you needed
        the "Committee Name" and "Committee Code" values? Insert these into the appropriate fields,
        choose a delegation that you have in your committee, and think of a password. Note that if
        you don't use a delegation in your committee then you will get an error message. Be sure to
        type in the delegation name like it is on the committee manager (i.e. be type in "USA" instead
        of "US" or "United States" since that is how you registered it in the committee manager).
        Registering and logging in as a delegate is case-insensitive, so typing in "uSA", "Usa", etc
        will all work. Logging in for committees, however, is case-sensitive (so capitalization matters).
            
    Logging in
        After registering you will be redirected to the delegate log in page. Click the delegate
        checkbox and log in with the necessary credentials. You'll see that you're now in the same
        crisis page as you were when you were logged in as a committee. That's because we want to
        empower delegates to communicate with you and other delegates in a quicker, easier, and
        more environmentally friendly manner. Again, the implementation of this messaging system
        is not complete (yet)!
            
This Was SmartMUN
        
    Thanks
        Thank you for trying with SmartMUN. We hope you enjoyed your experience and use
        SmartMUN to make chairing easier. If you have any questions or encouter any bugs please
        do just shoot me an email at pedroluiscunhafarias@gmail.com!
